Start documenting core_question and qbank_ (#907)
moodle/devdocs: docs/apis/plugintypes/qtype/newquestiondefaults.md

---
title: Question type plugins - defaults for new questions
tags:
  - Plugins
  - Question
  - qtype
description: A way for question types to remember a user's preferred settings for creating questions of a given type.
documentationDraft: true
---

Many question types are quite flexible, and so have a lot of options on their editing form. Quite often, when a teacher
is creating a number of questions, it is likely that the teacher will want to keep using the same values for some options.
Therefore, the question system has a way for question types to easily save certain settings, and re-use them.

Note, this is only done when a teacher creates and saves a new question. We don't save the preferences when a teacher edits
an existing question (which might have been created by someone else with different preferences).

Here is how you implement this:

### Decide which settings should be saved

It does not make sense to save all settings. For example, it woule by stupid to remember the name and question text,

> because these are things that make a particular question what it is, and will alwasy be different. So, we only want to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
because these are things that make a particular question what it is, and will always be different. So, we only want to
```

save settings where that makes sense. For example do you want the choices in your multiple-choice question numbered
'a, b, c, ...' or '1, 2, 3, ...' or not numbered at all? You need to think about this. Looking through what other question
types do is probably a good way to get a feel for what sorts of things it makes sense to remember.

### In the form class - use any previously saved defaults

> Before implementing this feature, your form class is likely to have code like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before implementing this feature, your form class is likely to have code which sets defaults, for example:
```
